reowww Jim do genial he's the author of
the JFK assassination the evidence today
and the publisher of Kennedy's and
king.com he's written a four-part
article on the Kennedys and civil rights
and this is part two we're going to hear
yes so part two you wrote you call this
the media spend rise JFK on civil rights
you talk about three different books and
you go into RFA's role and a story about
him and author James Baldwin and a
meeting that they were all attending to
so go ahead and and tell us about these
these three books actually is for
because the the Livingston left Steven
Livingston who wrote this unbelievably
bad book called Kennedy and King bought
a lot of his book from an earlier book
called the bystander by a British author
named Nick Brian that's right that's
right so I did all four of them okay now
I kind of suspected that coming up to
the fiftieth anniversary of MLK NRF Ches
assassination and the 55th anniversary
of JFK that diem SM would pull something
like this okay because I noted it in
reviewing Larry Sabato book at the 50th
anniversary of JFK that he had started
in on that at that time I wasn't aware
of Nick Bryant's book okay because that
was published in England all right so I
kind of thought this will be coming down
the pike all right
and so I reviewed these four books and I
provided a link to my reviews about
though but I decided to go ahead and do
it in depth because I wanted to show
just how bad is how terrible the MSM is
on this issue they were determined they
were determined to take away as much as
they could from what the Kennedys had
done you know I think that
a subliminal message in there okay that
they don't want anybody else to do that
again so they're going to try and cover
it up the way the Dunning school covered
up the horrors of what happened after
reconstruction all right so what Stephen
Levingston a sentence out of his
introduction he says Martin Luther King
had to overcome white house mistrust
disregard and stonewalling before his
message sank in unquote what a bunch of
baloney this is a look look from the
first literally from the first day that
President Kennedy was in office he began
attacking this problem all right and I'm
not kidding about that because during
the inaugural parade
he noticed when the Coast Guard did
their little color guard there wasn't
anybody of color in the color guard and
so that upset him okay so that night
that night he didn't augur ated that
night he calls up Douglas Dillon
Secretary of the Treasury and he says
how come there weren't any
african-americans in the Coast Guard I
want you to start looking into that okay
and that's what began C jab KN defended
affirmative action not very many people
know that but President Kennedy invented
affirmative action there was no
affirmative action before the kennedy
administration he started it with that
and then he spread it throughout the
entire government and they went beyond
that and he said anybody doing business
with the government
to prove they do not discriminate in
hiring practices all right so he starts
off his book with a complete and utter
falsity okay all right that's just just
baloney all right okay and of course
what happened what's ended up doing of
course is that it was Kennedy who
actually went ahead submitted a civil
rights bill to Congress and it was
essentially his brother
RFK Hubert Humphrey and that senator
from California Thomas Kuhn shall Thomas
Cuchillo rather who got it passed they
did what nobody else could do for almost
a century
they broke the southern filibuster and
by the way do you know how long
Livingston spends on that one sentence
one sentence okay Bryant doesn't even
mention it at all but clay risin wrote a
whole book about it called the Bill of
the century and by the way and so I have
to say what what what Kennedy did there
all right what Kennedy did there is that
he arranged a massive lobbying program
to give the bill a terrific head start
see there had been nine different
attempts since 1917 to get a civil
rights bill to Congress none of them
worked
okay and in fact people in the
administration told Kennedy it wouldn't
work
okay this included Harris Wofford who
was this for a civil rights adviser he
didn't think it was possible Joe Clark
of Pennsylvania one of those liberal
senators or was he didn't think it was
possible
Kennedy's chief vote vote counter and
Congress Larry O'Brien
he didn't think was possible that was
nineteen fifty sixty two not 61 alright
Mike Mansfield the Senate Majority
Leader 63 he didn't think it was
possible even Lyndon Johnson didn't
think it was possible okay he had been
what they call the master of the Senate
he didn't think it was possible
all right so one lemming stand and
Bryant talked about Oh Kennedy could
have got that's a bunch of baloney he
couldn't have got it through in 61 or 62
he tried to get a voting rights bill
into 62 and it failed Eisenhower called
the press conference and said it was
unconstitutional think about how dumb
that is giving African Americans the
right to vote is unconstitutional
Eisenhower that yeah he said that yes
okay by the way I gotta tell you this
David the more I read about Ivan our the
worse he looks Wow okay all right so so
what happened is that the reason he
finally was able to get this through
when his brother was that a certain
amount of events had to happen for this
to be possible the Democrats got four
more seats in the Senate beginning in
January 1963 and all those seats were
outside the south okay the
demonstrations in Birmingham began
nationally-televised
I don't have to tell you what we those
were right right you know Bull Connor
and all that stuff the dogs and the fire
hoses right right right
okay Kennedy had to face off against
George Wallace at the University of
Alabama that was nationally televised
okay he let those two african-american
students into the university Kennedy had
to bring in
thousand army guys because Wallis had
brought in almost a thousand state
police all right okay then that night
Kennedy made his his milestone speech on
civil rights which no president has ever
done anything like that since Lincoln
that same day of course I'm sure you
know this Medgar Evers was murdered in
his in his parking driveway okay by a
Klansman all right in all
of that year there was the philip
Randolph Bayard Rustin march on
Washington in front of the Lincoln
Memorial
JFK then began his unprecedented
lobbying effort for his bill which will
describe in the second part of this and
then JFK had to be assassinated in a
southern City in November of 1963 now
even with all of those momentous events
you know which happened in the space of
about ten or eleven months it still took
a year to get Kennedy civil rights bill
through Congress it was a longest to
bathe in congressional history with the
longest filibuster in Sandton history
that's how the term in the South was to
block that bill because they knew that
would be the beginning of the end of the
power structure in the south as they
knew it completely knocking down the
whole system of segregation so when they
say that Kennedy could have done this in
61 that's completely entirely false okay
and they avoid all this information
which I just gave you to make their
false assumption viable all right and by
the way Kennedy never lost interest in
this bill as Nick Bryant says it's
simply not true okay he was determined
to get it through he even told Phillip
Randolph you know I know I could lose
the election next year because of this
but I don't kind of plan on turning back
now or ever
okay all right so what I'm saying then
is if the main thesis of your book if
levy sins in Brian's book is so weak and
unfounded that you cannot even present
the counter evidence then number one how
honest are you being with the reader and
two what is your book worth worth and I
would add a third question why would you
even write such a book because as
anybody knows who studies this issue
the guy who was the bystander was Dwight
Eisenhower he's the one who sat decided
to sit it out for political purposes all
right okay now on RFK the two books are
David Margo looks the promised in the
dream and Michael Eric Dyson is
completely miss titled book what true
sounds like those two books mainly deal
with Bobby Kennedy all right and not so
much JFK right the worst part of Marvel
looks book is that he actually seems to
take Levinson's book seriously and says
JFK related do a heck of a lot of [ __ ]
on civil riders first two years in part
two of this we're going to go through
all the things that JFK did and there's
a chart at the end of my part three on
this which I show that JFK and one
seventh of the time did about three
times as much as FDR Truman and
Eisenhower put together okay it's simply
no comparison so that's just baloney all
right
he also Margolick actually calls the
Kennedys borrowing from David Halberstam
is terrible book on RFK calls him
committed cold waters which is just
nutty like him and so many others RFK
has seen Vietnam was a place to take a
stand against communism that's not true
and we just discovered through noon now
it said in 1961 in the two-week debate
in the Oval Office in the White House
Bobby Kennedy was at those meetings
nobody knew this before it's not
John Newman's book Jeff can Vietnam
Bobby Kennedy was at those meetings and
he kept on saying were not committing
combat troops all right
so clearly he hadn't been told that by
JFK he would have said it all right so I
didn't know that okay but it's but it's
actually true all right
so Bobby was not a committed Cold War at
the time he was Attorney General all
right
so but there is some interesting work in
Margaret looks book and I actually wrote
that if I had to recommend it of any of
these four books that would probably be
the one okay the rest of them just avoid
him like the plague
okay but for instance he he got this
airline reservation list in which
tonight RFK was assassinated in LA both
Coretta King and Jackie Kennedy flew to
California because they wanted to be on
the plane that carried Bobby Kennedy's
body back to New York and I guess that
the reason Coretta King did that is
something else I didn't know that the
night
Luther King was assassinated Bobby
Kennedy called up Coretta and asked her
if there was anything he could do and
Bobby Kennedy arranged to have Kingdom
body flown back from Memphis to Atlanta
he paid to have new phone lines tied
into her house because she was getting
so many phone calls and then he ranted
out a whole fleet of rooms to
accommodate all the dignitaries and
celebrities coming in for the funeral
all right and now if you can all happen
that a night that King was killed Bobby
Kennedy did all that but you want to
know something else
it got to be past midnight and if you
remember Bobby Kennedy flew into
Indianapolis and he made that great
speech you know what I'm talking about
right right right that's on YouTube
people can yeah yeah okay and so he made
that great speech in Indianapolis one of
the very few cities that didn't go up in
flames at night okay well at about
midnight after he did all this stuff he
remembered that he had to meet with the
students who'd arranged that rally and
he met with them he kept that commitment
they were called a radical action
program of Indianapolis do you believe
this guy on a night like that he met
with a bunch of kids because he promised
he would okay all right so that that was
pretty interesting stuff there and then
we have pictures my friend al-razi went
to Indianapolis and we have pictures of
that tarp there oh yeah those are some
nice pictures those are really really
good it can it's called a Kennedy in
King Park and AD in Indianapolis okay so
I mean that's it's really something to
watch those things all right
Rayford Johnson the Great Decathlon
athlete quote Bob Kennedy was better
than anybody else
better than Martin Luther King that if
something wasn't done to solve the
racial strife that we were in deep
trouble all right no one could have
brought black militants and moderates
together as Bobby King could have I was
using his paw be Kennedy could have and
no American could have spoken to both
races as he did senator Kennedy proved
that color doesn't make any difference
he was in terms of the Negro as much in
Negro as Adam Clayton Powell as Ralph
Bunche or senator Brooke he was a much
in a Negro as Jesse Owens or Joe Louis
because he did right by people like I
have to say that I I wasn't aware this
in another book I ran in 1968 during the
California primary the Black Panthers
drove him to a rally that's what I mean
this guy was amazing
now the Margarethe book has a lot of
really great pictures in it okay I mean
it has almost a great picture every
other page it's very profusely
Illustrated if you can accept the fact
that God used to work for the New York
Times and that he has to write things
like James Earl Ray killed Martin Luther
King and Sirhan John Kennedy do you can
excuse that stuff then that's the one
that's actually worth reading and
looking at now
Michael Eric Dyson book just might be
the worst of the bunch and that's really
saying something okay first of all it's
not even a book okay this guy went ahead
and he put together a series of
unrelated essays and small format book
with large space in between the lines
and somehow the publisher had the hood
spider called is a book okay it's not a
book all right
Dyson begins this fabrication with a
description of Martin Luther King's
funeral in Atlanta right there and pages
two and three I thought something was
wrong because although he describes
Thurgood Marshall being there and
Richard Nixon
there is no mention of Bobby Kennedy
when we know what I just said that he
was the most important figure there okay
then he says that Johnson didn't show up
because he did not want to drink the
service in the controversy of the
Vietnam War what a bunch of baloney that
is okay but it shows that he wants to do
everything he can to diminish RFK and
aggrandize Johnson sorry too anybody
knows anything that ain't the case
everybody knows that by 1968 Johnson was
at deadly odds with both King and RFK
and it wasn't just over the Vietnam War
okay as we'll see in part four or part
two of this interview Johnson had
essentially hijacked JFK's war on
poverty and made it into something that
neither JFK RFK wanted to have and at
that funeral what Dyson doesn't want to
tell you is that everybody now
understood that with King passed on and
because Johnson had blown it Bobby
Kennedy was their last best hope that's
what everybody was talking about there
now King
in the film King in the wilderness you
can see this tension between King and
LBJ when King goes to visit the scene of
the Watts Riots and he calls Johnson and
he tells the president that you got to
do something about the economic aspects
of the race problem you got to give
these young kids in the ghetto some hope
but as we'll see in part two of this you
know by 1967-68 Johnson had given up on
this all right and it's very interesting
I think to compare what Bobby Kennedy
said about those riots versus what King
said because Bobby Kennedy went even
further than King did okay he said that
there is no point in telling Negroes to
obey the law too many negroes Allah is
the enemy in Harlem bedford-stuyvesant
it has almost always been used against
them because as you know I'm sure you
know this David the watch riot began
over a dispute between an arresting
officer and a guy he was trying to
arrest a crowd gathered around okay and
then it exploded into a huge six-day
riot all right and Bobby Kennedy said
that the civil rights leaders had
ignored the problems in the north so the
larger population of those deprived in
the North had no real leadership and he
also said and it turned out to be true
that the tactics used in the south you
know the marches in the city etc those
would not work in the north and we're
going to learn later why he knew that
okay and one of the deepest darkest
secrets which none of these authors tell
you about Bobby Kennedy had been at work
on this since 1961 now this makes
perfect sense in leading up to the main
point
book which is this completely
mischaracterized meeting between James
Baldwin and several other people and
Bobby Kennedy and I think May of 1963
all right this was
Duane had been sending letters and
telegrams to Robert Kennedy and so Bobby
Kennedy met with him briefly at Hickory
Hill in Virginia and then that he said
wanted me looking again in New York and
bring some people's because I want to
talk about how we're going to attack
this problem in the North because we
already have our civil rights bill in
Congress now so let's start talking
about how we're going to attack this
problem outside the south that's what he
was really interested in okay well
when brought
people there okay and there's always
been dispute about who was there who was
not but let's go with what Dyson said
what who Dyson says was there there were
Clarence Jones who was Martin Luther
King's lawyer
Edwin berry one of the big wheels in the
Chicago Urban League Kenneth Clark an
illustrious social scientist and Bobby
Kennedy was very familiar with his work
Harry Belafonte the celebrity singer
Lena Horne celebrity dancer and actress
Lorraine Hansberry
was a reporter and a playwright who
wrote a raisin in his son and Jerome
Smith he was an activist for core who
wrote on the Freedom Rides those were
the african-americans there there were
four white people there
okay Baldwin brought in rips Horne the
actor and Kennedy was accompanied by two
assistants Burke Marshall and Edie
Guttman since it was an informal meeting
there was no Santa graphic record so we
have to rely upon second-hand accounts
by most accounts the Attorney General
started off the meeting by describing
what they had done so far in the south
and that of course was supposed to be a
segue to what they were going to do in
the north because bobby was going to
define the differences and probably his
and some of the work that he had done on
this already well he never got that far
Jerome Smith shattered any kind of
rapport by bursting out and saying that
being in the same room with Bobby
Kennedy made him want to throw up now
that's a good way to start a discussion
isn't it basic okay here you are you
have all these illustrious people there
a great opportunity to go ahead and talk
about problems you're going to have to
solve in the north and he says something
like that
now before why he said that and why he
was wrong and saying it none of these
books asked the most pertinent question
what was he doing there what was your
own Smith doing there because the
subject was supposed to be breaking down
discrimination in the north
what did Smith know about that Smith was
born in the south he was a member of the
New Orleans aspect of cor and he ruined
the Freedom Rides
that problem had already been dealt with
by the end of 1962 the Kennedys had
eliminated segregation in buses and bus
terminals all right so what was Smith
Delina nobody asked that question now
the reason he said that of course was
because of what happened with the
Freedom Rides in 1961 and RFK he took
this you seem to be striking out at
Bobby Kennedy and that of course when
that happened that kind of turned it
into a competition all right and so
people sided with Smith all right and
Wald will encouraged it Hansberry
actually said that Smith was a guy that
they should be listening to when in fact
now you see him see this is the problem
that Bobby Kennedy had there bill was
already in Congress at this one he'd
already gone ahead and remedied the
problem of the Freedom Riders so what
was she talking about and Dyson is such
a cheerleader for Baldwin that he never
even Ponder's the fact that Smith might
have been wrong and is lashing out of
Bobby Kennedy all right one of the
things that Smith said was at Bobby
Kennedy's men stood around taking notes
while he was being attacked that's not
what happened it was the FBI it stood
around and what makes that worse is that
the informative Bureau had inside the
Klan Kate Colvin that performed the
assault had actually told Hoover a week
in advance that it was going to happen
that information never got back to Bobby
Kennedy or Burke Marshall his assistant
you know when Bobby did learn about the
attacks he sent two of his men to the
scene John Seigenthaler and John doar
Cygnet dollar got clubbed and ended up
in the hospital Dewar got on a nearby
payphone and started describing what was
happened and when RFK realized what was
happening he's saying in 500 US Marshals
to keep order under the command of Byron
white you know as Bobby Kennedy said
more than once he did not know the
Freedom Riders are going when they did
all right
he once said that he learned about it in
newspapers and in fact when the freedom
miners were in the north like Virginia
and North Carolina
there wasn't any notable disturbances
it's when they hit the deep south okay
at Mississippi and Alabama that's when
it happened and this was he also said
this was something was pretty much
unprecedented he and Burke Marshall were
on the phones willy-nilly trying to find
ways to save the situation so nobody
would get killed all right you know and
so the attacks but it's even worse than
that and this is something I really
can't excuse Dyson see it wasn't just
Yaeger Hoover's fault
because of course if the justice why
would have known about this they could
have gone into court with the Fifth
Circuit which I wrote about a lot in
this okay
the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals was
an incredible gathering a progressive
white Southerners who are on JFK sign C
and if Bobby Kennedy would have known
about this he could have gone in court
before it happened and got an injunction
and that would have then prevented the
attacks and then provided for an escort
across the south
see that's what King did in the summer
demonstration okay
he forced LBJ to provide you know troops
to protect him to his march in Selma and
that's a Bobby Kennedy would have done
right so as Harris Wolford wrote in his
book Bobby Kennedy had met with some of
the civil rights leaders in April a
month before it happened they asked him
about that very issue when interstate
transportation could be straightened out
and the segregation signs pulled down to
the terminals there had been a recent
Supreme Court case which had been handed
down to the Kennedys of course
Eisenhower didn't do anything about it
all right and so he was applying now for
the Interstate Commerce Commission to go
ahead and apply the order they were the
notoriously slow working alright well as
Harris Wofford said he was at that
meeting here was a representative from
core there nobody told Bobby Kennedy
that the Freedom Rides were going to
happen you know as their leader Jim
Farmer later explained quote our
philosophy was simple we put on pressure
and create a crisis and then they react
okay now in other words is submitted in
blaming anybody
he should imply blaming his own
organization okay the first edition of
Harris wolf or his book was released in
1980 are we really to believe that
Michael Eric Dyson never read that book
all right based upon that false
information everybody started you know
attacking at the attorney of the guy who
had done more than any other attorney
general up to that time okay
they even jeered him when he said that
we helped King and Birmingham which he
did he did they in Birmingham what they
did is they raised bail money secret
bail money okay they monitored King's
treatment while he was in prison okay
and then they set Burke Marshall down to
negotiate the settlement all right you
know and so they just didn't know any
better all right some people have said
and Dyson tries to say this that the
meeting somehow helped the Attorney
General by sensitizing him I disagree
with that because at this point Bobby
Kennedy had been working on this for
going on three years okay nobody had
ever know Attorney General or president
for that matter had ever done as much
for the cause you know as John Kennedy
and Bobby Kennedy did I think what this
meeting did is it he now realized that
if he was going to do anything on this
issue the people were going to have to
consult with were people like King Roy
Wilkens of the n-double a-c-p
and later Cesar Chavez on minority
rights because Baldwin was so
misinformed he wants even verbally
attacked Joseph rau and nobody no
Washington lobbyist or lawyer had ever
done as much as Jo route did and he
attacked him in his own house he
verbally attacked him in his own house
even if somebody is moderate Henry Louis
Gates who became first a reporter and
then a scholar and like Baldwin and by
the way Baldwin made him a character
in his last play he even said that you
know as a civil rights leader Baldwin
just did not have the grasp of his own
role nor his own message and when this
was discovered later he was quote
relieved of his duties and shunted aside
as an elder and retired statesman
unquote and by what that is what
happened okay and after reading several
books on Baldwin you know you know I
would have to agree or he just didn't
have the emotional or mental stability
to be any kind of civil rights leader at
that time even his biographer who's very
sympathetic David Leeming you know
understood that point
I mean towards after sixty-seven
sixty-eight Baldwin was siding with
people like Stokely Carmichael suing
Newton and rap Brown alright he
predicted there was a new emerging class
consciousness made up by those people
that would be the end of America alright
you know I could go on and on from the
things I learned about Baldwin but just
let me say that Dyson's got it all wrong
and all these other writers like Larry
Tye have got it what happened they're
all wrong and either they do this out of
ignorance or they do this out of an
agenda okay right he by the way Dyson is
such a lousy historian he gives Johnson
the credit for the Civil Rights Act of
64 the Voting Rights Act of 65 and the
Fair Housing Act of 1968 this is just
ridiculous
clay reisen's book which I mentioned the
Bill of century proves that Johnson did
very little to pass the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 all right he proves but some
very good research that it was Bobby
Kennedy the Department of Justice Thomas
couch ill and Humphrey who passed that
bill the Voting Rights Act of 65 we know
how how that happened that was because
of the Selma demonstration which I
believe was King's greatest achievement
okay so he even wants to take that away
from King and give it to John
all right the Fair Housing Act that was
an expansion of JFK's Fair Housing Act
in 1962 Johnson submitted that in 1966
he couldn't get it through until 1968
and you know how it got through because
King was assassinated that's how it got
through I mean this guy this guy is
dangerous you know I mean really really
really bad you know but I have let me
say one last thing about this before we
in this part one the worst thing about
Dyson's book is I guess he's become kind
of a so-called race expert on the left
on the 50th anniversary of Bobby
Kennedy's assassination Amy Goodman of
Democracy Now devoted her whole program
to Dyson in his crappy book okay so in
other words the Bobby Kennedy who got
the 64 Civil Rights Act passed who came
out against Johnson's mad pursuit of the
Vietnam War who faced off against
Wallace at the University of Alabama
okay who ran one of the greatest
progressive campaigns for president in
the last 50 years or I'd say even longer
than that you know the greatest I
believe progressive campaigns okay since
Roosevelt I believe well actually since
since 1964 okay this actually 60 were
Bernie Sanders Jesse Jackson and Bobby
Kennedy's that was all of Nord Amy
Goodman wants to give us mr. Dyson as
completely lopsided view of his argument
Baldwin and Jerome Smith and he also
wants us to ignore all the good and this
is what gets me mad about that you know
all the good that couldn't come out of
that meeting this Smith in Baldwin were
not there what a disgrace and I will
talk about that in part two because I go
into all the things that JFK and Bobby
Kennedy were working on
they had they had done a lot of work on
the seat this is what makes him so
remarkable even before they submitted
the Civil Rights Act okay in 1963 they
were working on phase 2 it is assaulting
to get getting rid of the conscious okay
and that's a story that almost nobody
knows about it's great know that sounds
I do think it's interesting why do you
think so many people are eager to give
credit to Lyndon Johnson for these
things I mean considering what Johnson
did in Vietnam he really almost
collapsed the possibility of any of
these programs being possible and he he
inflamed I mean he was operating the
kind of a COINTELPRO stuff he really
inflamed the situation by the time he
was done the situation was was a
complete shambles uh aside from the
ability of past the racial tensions were
through the roof Vietnam was raging
there was no money why are people
wanting to give him credit for these
things I think number one a lot of
people don't do the research they don't
dig beneath the surface okay and I think
a lot of people because in the
establishment and in the MSM you know I
think that there is a move like I talked
about here to somehow denigrate the
Kennedys that's a whole show we could go
into about that whole issue I've written
a lot about that you know and then to
make the Great Society the saving grace
of Johnson's presidency okay because
you take away the Great Society there
really isn't a heck of a lot to
Johnson's presidency okay because you
know the guy by the end you know he
couldn't get reelected he couldn't even
really the reason he pulled out is
because McCarthy almost beat him in New
Hampshire and then he the first reports
he got from Wisconsin which was the next
primary that he was going to get he was
going to get destroyed in that primary
okay so that's why he went on TV and he
said I'm not going to run again his
presidency really ended up well I go
into this see he set the stage if you
really want to look at it in fact he set
the stage for the breaking up of the FDR
coalition though that coalition of
voters at that that the New Deal put
together because of these what we're
going to talk about next these horrible
riots that went on from 65 66 67 and 68
plus the escalation of the Vietnam War
that was essentially in and that's what
caused what you mentioned earlier the
things like SDS the anti-war movement
okay and the radical black movement you
know likes Nick soon as for a nothing
suit Nonviolent Coordinating Committee
and so I think historians in the media
okay they want to give these things to
Johnson in order not to say that
Johnson's presidented up being pretty
much a disaster in a lot of different
ways what was Johnson's reaction I mean
this gets away a little bit from what
we're talking about but I think you kind
of alluded to it when you were talking
about who is at King's funeral what was
Johnson's reaction to Martin Luther
King's anti-vietnam war speech and and
that
anti-vietnam war aside he was adding to
his civil rights discussion well what
happened is that once King began
attacking the Vietnam War
Johnson kind of became best friends with
Jo Hoover because we know what J Edgar
Hoover was trying to do right you know
Hoover was trying to drive a wedge
between King and the Kennedy White House
you know and when he issued that dossier
in October of 1963 against King because
he put out this white paper slamming
King calling the most notorious liar in
America Bobby Kennedy forced him to
withdraw all those things okay well when
Johnson when King started attacking the
Vietnam War
Johnson essentially hooked up with
Hoover and he tried to play those sex
tapes that the FBI said were of a king
in these hotel rooms you know and
getting them you know he tried to sell
them to Ben Bradley you know Ben Bradley
wouldn't wouldn't write about them okay
and so he also began as we know
COINTELPRO operations you know and also
that's how image hangers started or the
CIA's illegal domestic operations
because Johnson wanted to get as much
information he could that these
movements were all communist inspired
okay so he could smear them and so
that's a Johnson ended up doing he
became to be you know pretty much
enemies you know with and the other
thing is as the Vietnam war escalated
and he began spending more and more
money on it
he began spending less and less money on
the war on poverty right we'll talk
about that later also see Johnson ended
up being pretty much alone because by
that time almost all of Kennedy's
advisors had left you know people like
Pierre Salinger and George ball and
McGeorge Bundy they'd all left the
administration okay and King had broken
with him in 1966 so you know Johnson was
pretty much a lot of people think that
you know Johnson what a little bit you
know off the rails I won't get into that
there's been books written about that I
think the one of them is called you know
the mental breakdown of lumber Lyndon
Johnson I'm not going to go that far but
a lot of people think that he was really
kind of unstable you know in the last
couple of years and so well you know the
way he conducted the Vietnam War was
just kissing disgrace oh I mean yeah
just incredible atrocities I don't
that's what makes it so sensing that
people would try to give him any credit
for anything disease yes and by the way
you know try to give him credit for the
Voting Rights Act is taking away credit
from King right it was King did to Selma
demonstration you know there were other
people involved and I want to give it
all the king you know but there were
other people involved but but the SCLC
did a lot to organize a summer
demonstration and it was that that when
I had you know and and inspired the the
Voting Rights Act and like I said it was
his assassination that's finally after
two years passed and Housing Act you
know so I you know I I just this is to
me this is just lousy scholarship and
it's probably agenda driven also yeah
right no I look forward to a talk we'll
talk again soon we'll do parts three and
four and yeah thanks a lot for your time
okay thanks a lot David I'll talk to you
later
this is our hidden history
you